title: csound
date: 2007-04-17 23:31:59
tags: opensource, music
type: post
slug: opensource, music
---

one of the things that occupy much of my time (besides women) is music. i don't mean listening to my favourite musicians. i mean (computer aided) music synthesis.

the reason that i'm mentioning all these is to talk about my (almost) exclusive synthesis tool. It's free (as free speech) and many people refer to it as a programming language more than a tool.

so [csound](http://csounds.com/) (written in c) is the compiler and _csd_ is the source file. every _csd_ file has 3 parts:
* _options_: command line options for the compilation
* _orchestra_: the track structure (instruments)
* _score_: the way (duration & other attributes) instruments are played

i'll be back with more info about all these in future posts. For now just enjoy a small track of electronic music by luis maurette.

the track contains three instruments:

    instr	106 ; NOISE
     idur	=		p3
     iamp	=		ampdb(p4)
     ifrq	=		cpspch(p5)
     iatk	=		p6
     irel	=		p7
     iflut1	=		p8
     iflut2	=		p9
     iharm	=		p10
     kenv	linen	iamp,iatk, idur, irel
     asig1	buzz	iamp, ifrq, iharm, 2
     kenv2	line	iflut1, p3, iflut2
     ktick	oscil	50, kenv2*.1, 1
     alfo	oscil	10, 1*ktick, 1
     afil	tone	asig1, 1000*alfo
     out		afil
    endin

    instr	206 ; NOISE
     idur	=		p3
     iamp	=		ampdb(p4)
     iamp2	=		ampdb(p5)
     ifrq1	=		cpspch(p6)
     ifrq2	=		cpspch(p7)
     iatk	=		p8
     irel	=		p9
     iflut1	=		p10
     iflut2	=		p11
     iharm	=		p12
     kfrenv	line	ifrq1, idur, ifrq2
     kamp	line	iamp, idur,	iamp2
     kenv	linen	kamp,iatk, idur, irel
     asig1	buzz	kamp, kfrenv, iharm, 2
     kenv2	line	iflut1, p3, iflut2
     ktick	oscil	50, kenv2*.1, 1
     alfo	oscil	10, 1*ktick, 1
     afil	tone	asig1, 1000*alfo
     out		afil
    endin

    instr   108 ; FM
     idur	=		p3
     iamp	=		ampdb(p4)
     ifrq	=		cpspch(p5)
     ifun	=		p6
     iatk	=		p7
     irel	=		p8
     icar	=		p9
     imod	=		p10
     index	=		p11
     irep	=		p12
     kenv	linseg	0, iatk, 1, irel, 0
     kenv2	oscil	iamp, 1/idur*irep, ifun
     asig1  foscil  kenv, ifrq, icar, imod, index, ifun
     out		asig1*kenv2
    endin

if you don't believe me... compile it :)

you can also find a vim syntax highlighting package for vim. is this open source music or what?
